Adding media transcripts api's (#21622)
microsoftgraph/microsoft-graph-docs: api-reference/beta/resources/transcript.md

---
title: "transcript resource type"

> description: "The transcript resource represents the metadata for a media item's transcript."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "Represents the metadata for a media item's transcript."
```

---
title: "transcript resource type"
description: "The Transcript resource represents the metadata of a transcript of a media item."
author: "elmazdremdzhe"
ms.localizationpriority: medium
ms.prod: "sites-and-lists"
doc_type: resourcePageType
---

# transcript resource type

Namespace: microsoft.graph

[!INCLUDE [beta-disclaimer](../../includes/beta-disclaimer.md)]

The **Transcript** resource represents the metadata of a transcript of a [media item]. This is often associated with a meeting recording or another kind of video. This metadata has the following shape:

> 

Reviewer 2: I think this introduction would be improved by adding information like the following from API.md:
Teams meetings and events can not just be recorded, but also automatically transcribed. These transcripts can be used for many things. Perhaps most importantly:

- As subtitles or captions during playback of the recording, making it significantly more accessible to a wider range of audience.
- To make the recording searchable -- both in the sense of a user looking for a specific point in the video, and in the sense of a user looking for a specific video where they know a certain phrase is spoken.

In the larger ecosystem, Teams meetings are far from the only video type that may have an associated transcript, subtitle, or caption. In fact, just about any video may have a subtitle track that could be used for the above scenarios. It is also plausible that transcription could be added to other media types, such as audio recordings, in the future.

The Stream team is in the process of adding support for associating one or more transcripts with any video file stored in ODSP. We believe the customers may see additional benefit if the APIs to interact with these transcripts are public. It would, for example, allow them to automate tasks such as uploading transcripts of videos/meetings/recordings from other sources than Teams.

Reviewer 2: @elmazdremdzhe Looks good.  I only have one question about line 25.  Does the customer have the option to make the APIs to interact with the transcripts public?  Or is this yet in development at MS?

Reviewer: @elmazdremdzhe, Mike, was previously working on this PR, and I will continue the review. 
This content seems to belong to a conceptual topic, not a reference topic. 
Reference topics answer questions like: What services can I access? What resources can I work with? What APIs are available? How can I use X API? Please follow this wiki to make the edits: [Reference topic templates - Overview (azure.com)](https://dev.azure.com/msazure/One/_wiki/wikis/Microsoft%20Graph%20Partners/344038/Reference-topic-templates)

Author: I have reviewed this text with our PM and changed it accordingly. I think now it makes more sense, @Danielabom , let me know what you think!

---
title: "transcript resource type"
description: "The transcript resource represents the metadata for a media item's transcript."
author: "elmazdremdzhe"
ms.localizationpriority: medium
ms.prod: "sites-and-lists"
doc_type: resourcePageType
---

# transcript resource type

Namespace: microsoft.graph

[!INCLUDE [beta-disclaimer](../../includes/beta-disclaimer.md)]
The **transcript** resource represents the metadata for a [media item]'s transcript.

> 

Reviewer: @elmazdremdzhe, Reference topics normally have short descriptions. Conceptual topics, on the contrary, expand on details. Will some of the content here belong to a conceptual topic, maybe? Please see this wiki for guidance: [Reference topic templates](https://dev.azure.com/msazure/One/_wiki/wikis/Microsoft%20Graph%20Partners/344038/Reference-topic-templates)

Author: I think we want to keep this a reference topic, because documentation in "support" link is pretty extensive. I will shorten this description to just the first sentence.

Author: Let me know if you think I need to create a conceptual topic as well!

---
title: "transcript resource type"

> description: "The Transcript resource represents the metadata of a transcript of a media item."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "The transcript resource represents the metadata of a transcript of a media item."
```

author: "elmazdremdzhe"
ms.localizationpriority: medium
ms.prod: "sites-and-lists"
doc_type: resourcePageType
---

# transcript resource type

Namespace: microsoft.graph

[!INCLUDE [beta-disclaimer](../../includes/beta-disclaimer.md)]

> th

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> The **transcript** resource represents the metadata for a [media item]'s transcript.

Reviewer: Are you planning you add the link to the resource because I see "[ ]"

Author: I don't see a "[]", I see 
![image](https://github.com/microsoftgraph/microsoft-graph-docs/assets/10543330/f97bf460-c570-4bdd-877d-6a579ffa35ce)

> The **Transcript** resource represents the metadata of a transcript of a [media item].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The transcript resource represents the metadata for a media item's transcript.
```

Transcripts are a text representation of spoken content in a media item. Transcripts can be added to media items to facilitate content search in the transcript pane and ensure inclusivity through captions.  For more information, see [View, edit, and manage video transcripts and captions - Microsoft Support](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/office/view-edit-and-manage-video-transcripts-and-captions-3cb9acb6-05b2-4f59-a50d-7df61123aa20). This documentation covers supported video formats for transcripts and acknowledges that audio formats do not yet support transcripts.

Transcripts are available for Teams meeting recordings that use Teams live transcription, as well as for other videos stored on OneDrive for Business and SharePoint.

These transcript APIs are designed to provide access to authorized users, allowing them to automate tasks such as reading, uploading, or deleting transcripts.

> Transcript metadata has the following structure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Transcript metadata has the following structure:
```

> These transcript APIs are designed to provide access to those with appropriate permissions to automate tasks such as reading, uploading, or deleting transcripts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These transcript APIs are designed to provide access to authorized users, allowing them to automate tasks such as reading, uploading, or deleting transcripts.
```

> Transcript metadata has the following shape:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Transcript metadata has the following structure
```

|[Create transcript](../api/transcript-create.md)|[transcript](../resources/transcript.md)|Create a new [transcript](../resources/transcript.md) object.|
|[Upload transcript](../api/transcript-put-content.md)|[transcript](../resources/transcript.md)|Upload content of a [transcript](../resources/transcript.md) object.|
|[Update transcript](../api/transcript-update.md)|[transcript](../resources/transcript.md)|Update the properties of a [transcript](../resources/transcript.md) object.|
|[Delete transcript](../api/transcript-delete.md)|None|Delete a [transcript](../resources/transcript.md) object.|

## Properties
|Property|Type|Description|
|:---|:---|:---|
|content|Stream|Content stream of the transcript described by this resource.|
|createdDateTime|DateTimeOffset|The date and time the transcript was created. Read-only.|
|cTag|String|A cTag for the content of the transcript. This tag is not changed if only the metadata is modified. Read-only.|
|displayName|String|Optional user provided name of the transcript.|
|id|String|Unique identifier of the transcript. Read-only. Inherited from [entity](../resources/entity.md).|

> |isAutoGenerated|Boolean|Whether or not the transcript was machine generated. Read-only.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|isAutoGenerated|Boolean|Whether or not the transcript was machine-generated. Read-only.|
```

|isDefault|Boolean|Whether this transcript is the default for the associated item. The default transcript of an item will automatically be shown when the media is played back.|
|isVisible|Boolean|Whether the transcript should be visible to choose, e.g. when viewing the media.|

> |languageTag|String|Language tag specifying the language of the transcript. The tag consists of an [ISO 639-1] two letter code, optionally followed by an [ISO 3166 alpha-2] code. Eg, `"en"`, `"en-US"`, `"sv-SE"`.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|languageTag|String|Language tag specifying the language of the transcript. The tag consists of an [ISO 639-1] two-letter code, optionally followed by an [ISO 3166 alpha-2] code. Eg, `"en"`, `"en-US"`, `"sv-SE"`.|
```

|lastModifiedDateTime|DateTimeOffset|The date and time the transcript was last modified. Read-only.|
|size|Int64|Size of the transcript in bytes. Read-only.|

> |source|microsoft.graph.media.transcriptSource|Enumeration value specifying the original source of this transcript based on uploading application. Read-only.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|source|microsoft.graph.media.transcriptSource|Enumeration value that specifies the source of this transcript based on the uploading application. Read-only.|
```

> |transcriptType|microsoft.graph.media.transcriptType|Enumeration value specifying what type of transcript this resource describes.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|transcriptType|microsoft.graph.media.transcriptType|Enumeration value that specifies what type of transcript this resource describes.|
```

[iso 639-1]: https://www.iso.org/iso-639-language-codes.html
[iso 3166 alpha-2]: https://www.iso.org/iso-3166-country-codes.html

### transcriptType enumeration

| Value              | Description                                                                                                                                                                           |
| :----------------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |

> | subtitle           | Denotes a transcript that is for an audience that doesn't understand the language used in the [media item]. Typically, the transcript itself includes only spoken/voiced audio.  Typically, a subtitle is not the original language of the media item but instead is a translation.       |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| subtitle           | Denotes a transcript for an audience that doesn't understand the language used in the [media item]. It usually contains the textual representation of the spoken or voiced audio. Unlike the original language of the media item, subtitles are typically translations provided to enable understanding for viewers who speak different languages.|
```

| caption            | Denotes a transcript that is meant for the deaf and hard of hearing. In addition to spoken audio, the transcript may often contain descriptions of non-verbal audio, such as noises, music, etc. Typically, a caption is the original language of the media item. |
| unknownFutureValue | Marker value for future compatibility.                                                                                                                                                |

> > Note: Transcript Type does not change how transcripts are displayed. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Note: The transcript type does not change how transcripts are displayed. 
```

### transcriptSource enumeration

| Value              | Description                                                                             |
| :----------------- | :-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| system             | The transcript was generated by Microsoft.                                              |
| external           | The transcript was created by an external source, for example, manually by a user.            |
| extracted          | The transcript was extracted from the media's text channel.                             |

> | unknownFutureValue | Marker value for future compatibility.      

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| unknownFutureValue | Evolvable enumeration sentinel value. Do not use. | 
```
